---
title: Tailwind, and Tairo
---

::doc-component-demo
---
title: What is Tailwind CSS?
---
Tailwind CSS is a popular utility-first CSS framework that allows developers to quickly build modern and responsive user interfaces. The framework provides a large set of pre-defined utility classes that can be easily applied to HTML elements, helping to create visually appealing designs without having to write custom CSS code.

As example, the following HTML markup will create a link with a primary text color

:::code-group
```html [example.html]
<a 
  href="#" 
  class="
    text-primary-500
    dark:text-primary-400
    hover:underline 
    focus:underline
  "
>
  A link with a primary text color
</a>
```
:::

For those familiar with preprocessors like SCSS, Tailwind CSS provides an organized and easy-to-learn approach to styling web applications. While SCSS allows us to write custom CSS code using variables, functions, and mixins, Tailwind CSS follows a utility-first approach where pre-defined CSS classes are used directly in HTML markup.

While the framework provides a large set of utility classes, it is essential to combine them with components in order to create a consistent user interface without writing repetitive code. By using Tailwind CSS with components, we can achieve a clean, efficient, and scalable design system.

---

Useful resources:

- [Learn utility-first fundamentals on tailwindcss.com](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first)
::


::doc-component-demo
---
title: How Tairo uses Tailwind CSS?
---

Tairo uses Tailwind CSS to style its components and provide a consistent design system across all layers. By combining Tailwind CSS with components, Tairo allows developers to create modern and responsive user interfaces without writing custom CSS code (you can still write custom CSS code if you want to).

The framework provides a large set of utility classes that can be easily applied to components, helping to create visually appealing designs without having to write repetitive CSS code. By using Tailwind CSS with components, Tairo provides a clean, efficient, and scalable design system that can be easily customized to fit the needs of any project.

In addition to the pre-defined utility classes, Tairo, via Shuriken UI, provides a set of prebuilt components that have been styled using Tailwind CSS. These components have been tailored to have all the necessary states and variations to create a consistent user interface.

You will find in the next steps how to customize Tailwind CSS and Shuriken UI to match your brand identity and create a unique and consistent design system for your project.

::


::doc-nav
---
prev: /documentation/layers/iconnav
next: /documentation/tailwindcss/config
---
::